And avoiding an embarrassing situation.
I also know, sir, that these agencies do not have the subpoena power as does this committee
and that failing to have the subpoena power, they deprive of a very important weapon in
fighting communism and subversion.
And I've not regarded it as serres and adversary proceeding.
I think it's a matter of working together to get a result.
I think in that the executive has to play a vital part.
And I think in that, suits are the Congress.
And that committee is the particular, but also by a vital part.
I see no conflict between the folks.
Well, I didn't want you to draw that inference.
Yes, conflict or distinction.
Everyone recognizes that the investigations subcommittee has done a mostly effective work
at Fort Monmouth.
But it is disturbing to me.
And I'm sure to the American people, if we are to draw the inference, that only the subcommittee
is in a position to do this important work, so far subversives and security risks are concerned.
What would you recommend that be done?
Certainly within the limited personnel of the staff that it takes as I say years to accomplish this.
And we cannot justify taking so much time to the Congress take cognizance of this.
Or is work wage something be done to allow the Department of the Army to this sinister minutes?
Well, sorry, we've done everything we can to arouse them.
So we've acquainted them with the good deal of information, which we have about the situation.
I think the answer you have questions directly.
There is, of course, your right, and the Washington, Washington, Washington, Washington.
The limit on what this or any other committee can do.
But I think if everybody has a responsibility in this important field, does work and work hard
and that we all work together, a lot can be accomplished.
I know that this committee has been responsible for the removal from defense plans and from places in the Army
of a number of communists during the past year.
If we had gotten only one out, I think that would have been an accomplishment.
The fact that many have been gotten about, I think, is the very great credit of the members of the committee.
The last time, and I would make Senator's Warshak, is if we could get information such as that requested on the preps case, a little bit faster.
And find out who is the rest of the bottom, who is responsible for promoting a government communist for the rank of major.
After that communist has invoked the federal amendments to the Army, for knowing that, promoted, for knowing that, did other things in his favor,
and permitted him to be in contact with other military personnel.
We could get that information.
And find out all the people who decided this man should be given an honorable discharge.
If we get to those people, I think we will have taken another step forward in this fight.
You think, then, that this subcommittee can accomplish this task without any additional assistance?
Mucher. I think the subcommittee needs all the help it can get from other committees of Congress, from the executive agencies and the investigative agencies.
I think we all have to work together.
I would agree with you that the job is probably too big to be done 100%, but everybody working together certainly can't be done 100% by people working alone or in conflict with each other.
Everybody recognizes that the FBI has done exceptional work in compiling these files of subversives.
What can be done is anything to ensure the immediate availability and the effective use of these files.
A lot of very great problems, Senator Dorscht. These files, sir, you very correctly stated, still contain the vital information and they are forward.
It's not to us, unfortunately, we don't get them, but government agencies, do get them.
The departments concern, do get them. The defense plan concerns the security, the military security liaison, do get them.
Then the question you raised, Senator Dorscht, I guess what can be done about it when they get them and don't do anything about them?
Ignore the information in them, and that has certainly happened in a number of cases.
I would say one answer, sir, is the committee, such as this, to come along and point out the failure to act as an example of inefficiency in the executive, which is our mandate under the legislative reorganization act.
When we do that, when we point that out, we self-usually don't follow.
Mr. Cohn, we're reminded almost daily of the possibility of involvement in war in the China, Southeast Asia.
The Americans, people have apprehension and fear over that possible intervention.
It seems to me that right here at home, if we face involvement, that we ought to take advantage of every opportunity, such as safety guard, our military forces, so that we can rely upon them in case of war.
What can we do more specifically to ensure an immediate house cleaning of these subversive elements so that the Americans, people will know that in case of involvement in war,
in the coming months, that we can present a united front instead of inviting the possibility of sabotage right here in the military forces.
Senator Chac, I'm sorry to have to answer this question.
Yes, sir, Senator Chac, that's very big and a very important question.
I'm sure it could probably be answered a lot better by the members of this committee, or by the way, because the Amoris Curie is the missing I have.
All I can give you is my opinion there. I think there are a number of things which can be done.
I think one thing is that all of us should work together. In other words, the executive has its responsibility.
The Congress has its responsibility. There is no need for any conflict whatsoever.
The two should operate in age and in health of each other, in getting these subversives and communists out.
As far as this committee is concerned, sir, I would say if we could continue the way we were before, holding these serious executive sessions, public areas, exposing these communists and traitors, getting them out of the front plan, getting them out of positions in the army and other places.
But that would be a big step forward.
The particular problem that you mentioned about safeguarding these plans, I think another important step lies in dealing in some ways with the problem of communist dominates.
Certain thoughts of certain labor unions, such as United Electrical Workers, which have thousands of members in defense plans doing vital war secrets.
Some way must be found of coping with those unions and stopping them. When the leaders of those unions invoke the fifth amendment of the Communist Party membership, the membership in activity in the communist conspiracy,
there must be some way must be found, sir, to prevent those unions from manning vital defense plans and vital war plans. Those about a field of good many problems, which are presented, which I'm sure people are very familiar with, and I can have better suggestions for dealing with them.
And in the graph, do you have time? They like also, we can to get to council wealth for his time in the chair of hope still. We know the yielding for the prior additional time.
Mr. Cohen, you're questioning there was one of the facts that the result of your trip through Europe,
serving the libraries, the memory of Cagan, because that's what I was the fact that Mr. Cagan had written plays of a predict for the Communist Party, rather by communist front.
That he lived with the communists for quite some time knowing the communists. He signed this pledge and that he said I am ten to support the coming election.
And I do hereby nominate the following name person of the candidate of the communist party.
I believe there's brought out the fact that Mr. Cagan at the time you went to Europe was holding once again.
Mr. Cagan, when I saw him serve as the acting director of the Public Affairs Office for the High Commissioner of Germany, he had some 4,000 people working under.
Having to do with the information which we dispensed in Europe, the right?
Yes, our information and a statement of the position of the United States and the free world and the fight against communists.
Mr. Cagan, I think you're yesterday Mr. Cagan, there's come to my attention information which I think is a committee meeting with you once.
But first let me ask you, your call was submitted under oath by Mr. Steven, that it was a New York paper called the New York Code, that seems to get the charges against Mr. Cagan.
That's true, sir.
I want to tell you now Mr. Cagan and I have Mr. Cagan.
Now I'm telling you now that I have learned that Mr. Cagan, from I'm afraid that the communist pledge of the pledge of support to communist party,
the individual who lives with communist world plays of communist front produced, is now working for the paper, if you can follow it left.
And I avoid saying newspaper, which instigated the charges against Mr. Cagan.
If all in other words Mr. Cagan, I follow that.
I'm a man who has had our information program, trying to pledge the thing of support to communist, New York Post which instigated the charges which resulted in all this time spent here.
So we find now that Mr. Cagan is one of the men on the New York Post, you think that might have some significance?
I think it has the greatest, I don't say I'm surprised by it, sir, that he is working that they've employed him, but it does have a great deal of significance I think.
Mr. Cagan, you have been with this committee, I've listened by Mr. Cagan, Chairman, with a few days after the Cagan Chairman, etc.
You and I have also heard the charge, we don't like the method of the committee, we don't like the way the witnesses are treated.
You know, we never find any, we're giving any specific things.
Yes sir.
I have interviewed, I believe thousands of witnesses, who have had over 500 witnesses of the paper for the Committee on the Rose,
and I asked you this, did you ever see any of them with the charges?
I did not check.
Now, I think that the shining example of Mr. Cagan was a general, and I never knew before that a general could be intimidated by a few questions, I thought we had a fairly tough army, and I think most of them would not be intimidated by being asked to tell us truth.
But could I ask you this, is it correct that the Mr. Licker was told, we had heard that he might possibly have a heart condition that we insisted on these lawyers, that he's doctor-fifty-siding, that the doctor was instructed, that if he felt the examination became too vigorous, if he felt the Mr. Licker was being excited in any way,
then the doctor would have the absolute right to call off to the question of Mr. Licker.
Yes sir, he, General's Wickers, did not want to doctor there, you insisted that he be in the room, that General's Wickers side, and that he interrupts the proceedings at any moment if he felt there was any possibility that the questioning should not continue.
I told the doctor that we would give him the effect of the mental power, I didn't use those words, I don't believe.
So, over ending we were doing the T-South, if he felt that the examination was getting too vigorous, all he had to do was say, we'll call a hall, we'll call a hall, that is right sir.
There was no doubt about that.
And it is the correct, Mr. Cohn, that after the Zlicker testimony, the press came in as they always said, I told Mr. Zlicker that I wanted him to sit right there in the jury box,
listen to everything I said, and if I misquote of anything, that I wanted him to know that he was no longer under the jurisdiction of the committee, and I wanted him to correct any mist statements that I made, that's right, that is true sir.
And then as it cracked the pictures, which are just that there, when I asked him if any correction to make, he made it until after I had left the building, and then they made a statement, that is true sir.
And we heard this morning about denolution from the records, in the correct, Mr. Cohn, that you contacted the official reporter, and checked with him and found that every word that he had in his notes was transcribed, so that anyone who wants to read Zlicker testimony can get it non-read it.
So that is true, and I believe the official reporter furnished an after-David to that effect of the committee, and if Mr. Stevens or anyone else suggests the contrary, he is very badly mistaken.
Now Mr. Cohn, you and I have a belief of Cohn over the Zlicker testimony, read it over, we're curious to know where we might possibly have scared Mr. General or abused, and having read that testimony over, can you please read it?
Can you say that this general was or was not in any way abused?
I don't think he watched it.
I mentioned that case, you left the only one which there was abuse claim, does I recall.
Mr. Cohn, as far as you know, each witness who saw before the committee, I think a lot of exception, I think, was informed that he had the right to have counsel, the counsel could just be signing.
If any time he wanted to discuss any question with his lawyer, he could do that, if any time he or his lawyer, self-linearly needed a private conference, and we were finally safe rooms for them to have a private conference.
Before our committee, we have gone far beyond what is done in a courtroom for before grand jury, where a lawyer can only object.
Here we allow the lawyer, and I'm not sure the women are going to far, we allow the lawyer to sit beside the witness, quailly coach him, talk to him at any time,
and if there was any question of abuse, the lawyer could bring that question up, is that correct?
That is absolutely correct, sir. I think the right is given to witnesses before the committee, but greater than witnesses would have in a court of law all before a grand jury.
I think, sir, that you did a good number of things, and everything humanly possible to see that the rights of witnesses were completely protected, and I know that the record contains statements, even in the case of lawyers for some Fifth Amendment communists, congratulating the UNB committee, on the fair manner in which the hearing has been conducted.
The Minister of Court with also heard some people talking about a one man investigating committee.
Is it not correct that in all most every instance, the centers on the Republican side had an up interesting list that they had either represented there, or they requested that at night they get a resume to put one on during the day.
Sir, yes, the situation is this, on that. I know that Senator Monson and the Dirkson and Senator Potter were in frequent attendance of both informal, formal, executive sessions and public sessions of the committee.
I know they could not be there on those allways. They had to remember their office presence in order to carry them and immediate and first hand reports of what had transpired.
Yes, I know sir, if I might answer a missed that, in addition to that, we furnished to those senators summaries.
Frequently, what had transpired if a meeting were missed due to other Senate prisoners, and I further know sir, that in addition to the regular committee responsibility, Senator Monson and Senator Dirkson and Senator Potter each, sort of spearheaded and investigated a very important investigation of its up committee.
They sent it a month, they won a appointment of the staff.
And it has inspired the election of Senator Dirkson.
I can see the witness Mr. Dirkson on the first, if you move or not.
Mr. Cohen, yes sir. It takes quite a while to get around to me, I observed this morning.
Mr. Cohen, my male and my telegrams reflect sir that you are held in a gratifyingly high esteem in this country.
There, apparently, are good many people who think that I was unfair to you yesterday.
Would you kind of set them as best if you could by saying I was fair?
Sir, I would say the first part of your statement encourages me very much as far as the second-foughtest concerns to welch, I will certainly say you are a very figureist and a very able lawyer and close examiner with much more experience.
And I'm sure, much more ability than I happen to have, and I'm sure you're doing your job as you see it, right?
Well, would you mind picking up my words there, would you say it would say it?
Well, the only trouble we ever have is when you're at me to pick up your words.
I'm sure sir, you did not mean to be unfair to me, right?
And Mr. Cohen, I say to you now that if in my zeal, and I guess all pilots are always a little jealous, if in my zeal I seem to be unfair, would you just kind of wave at me and say Mr. Well, I think you're getting unfair.
So you do that? Yes sir.
Now on the other side of it, just for your amusement some of some people wali and want to know why I didn't carry you, will lay him from land, see?
Well, would you tell them that I guess you have, that it sounded as if I was fairly big, right?
I will tell them that you tried to carry me when from Lentzert.
Well, I don't think so.
Now I ought to make all my friends go wherever number I've got to you with that as well.
Mr. Cohen, I determined that I was going to come into the room this morning when you and I were both great, and where we wouldn't quarrel with each other at all, and discuss the thing that I think of as is of some importance.
And that is the exchange between you and the infinitive works and yesterday about the loyalty for it and your intentions in respect to them.
Yes sir.
I'm going to read a little from the record, but I want to assure you that I'm not going to say now is that true or false, or anything like that?
I just want to remind you of some things that you said as a basis for what I want to discuss with you.
First we find this a little.
On page 4795, it's from Mr. Gerkson said, speaking about when your committee work may start again,
you as chief counsel would have some estimate of the work that will be undertaken as soon as the regular investigating committee gets underway, answer yes sir.
So what are your judgment would be among the first of the things you would address to which you would address yourself?
You would need more than one thing, but I want to call attention this one.
I would say one of the first things would be this loyalty for it's question.
Mr. Gerkson, in as much as the loyalty's matter is pending of the present time, it can be considered I take it as an unfinished committee business.
Mr. Kohl, no doubt about it there.
Mr. Kohl, on that basis it would be cut work, which strike it out.
On that basis it would require no initiatory action for the action on the part of the committee.
Mr. Kohl, the request of the Army or Mr. Adams to produce those people has been standing for some period of time.
It's still fair. It has never been withdrawn.
That is a matter of pending business for the committee.
So it works for them. The authority to issue subpoenas lodges in the hands of the chairman unless I take it by action and the full committee that should be impaired.
This phone matters right sir.
So the request of the penis were actually issued for members of the loyalty board.
But you anticipate by a way of a difference of opinions between the Army and the committee as to whether or not one, the members must respond as a penis.
Two, whether they can testify on matters involving inferior loyalty boards and the action that was taken.
Mr. Kohl, I am afraid it is a difference to such that there would be another collision.
I would anticipate that that kind of a collision might bring some people back into this committee room.
Mr. Kohl, if it follows the pattern of this there, I suppose it would. Yes sir.
Now Mr. Kohl, I just want to chat with you a moment about that and it's all friend of this because this is a point where lawyers can differ, isn't it?
What is that sir?
The point is that what is correct to speak during respect to calling and examining members of loyalty boards.
No sir. Do you think the opinions of the country is human?
I don't know the opinion of the country as the unanimous serve.
You expect from a legal standpoint, the members of the loyalty board have any immunity from a duty to a peer before a congressional committee.
My answer to you would be I don't think it's even close.
Now the first two things to discuss, the first thing is whether or not if it's a penis served on them, they've got to come up and take off their hat and sit down and say here I am.
That's correct to me isn't it? Yes sir.
Now on that point you say there can be no doubt that they've got to respond and take the witness there.
Yes sir. Mr. Kohl, I don't count myself a great constitutional lawyer and all but all there is a difference I believe a little bit on that point.
May I hope to call and take it on that one? Yes sir.
I think they ought to come up and speak themselves who let us dare.
Now the next point is if I understood your policy with Senator Berkson,
it is your belief there that you may properly then examine them on their conduct as loyalty board members.
Yes sir.
And in instances where they have, as you have put it in this room, cleared Communists, you have counsel for this committee and the committee has the right to inquire about action on their part.
So that if you find that a loyalty board has passed on the question of a possible support for security with and if you put it has cleared it, you may ask the loyalty board their reasons for doing so.
We may ask that sir, yes.
And you put the in the personal loyalty board member on the staff and inquire fully as to that whole case.
Yes sir. What the evidence was before him.
Is that right sir? We certainly can ask that sir, yes. All the evidence that was before him.
Yes sir. All the reasons that moved in the deciding one way or the other.
Yes sir. And saying you all the reasons that moved in deciding one way or the other, we could certainly ask questions about what evidence had been presented and whether or not they had, didn't have certain evidence showing the man was a communist or a metal guy.
Yes sir.
And in the event that you reach the conclusion that the loyalty board member that you have under discussion is decided to case wrongly, you can make that quite a pound, give it an open hearing to the public.
Mr. Welch, I'm trying to go a long way here and give you a yes and no answer to my answer. So this is yes sir, but there are lots of ramifications to the questions which we could ask and the answers which we could obtain.
And there are a lot of fields in which we could clearly enter and there are some about which they might be questioned.
I'm only trying to point out this, Cohn. Yes. They view that you have a lawyer and a chief counsel to this committee and to get before the plans you have about examining members of the wildy board so that we will understand what the problem is.
Yes sir. I'm a fine head by.
How much time do we have to go?
Two minutes.
Now I take it that if after an examination of the wildy board member in respect to any case where there is any communist as we put it or a subversive or a security risk it's been cleared, you would of course strike it out.
In the event that you develop a situation where you disagreed with the decisions of the wildy board member, you would of course feel free then to call the accused or the person that was under suspicion.
No sir, it doesn't quite work that way usually.
I didn't ask you whether it works that way. Would you feel free to call?
Well, I would have felt free to call the accused before we called in the members of the loyalty board. In other words before we would call in the members of the loyalty board, we would examine the people who had been cleared.
Yes, but there's no couple putting us the other way around either is there you can call the wildy board member first.
And then if you wish call the man that he was dealing with after we're in the exam and him.
I would say sir, let's be a... let's be putting the cards before the first.
Well, I'm only talking about legal principles involved. It might be an off-ster way to do it, but there's nothing to prevent it is.
No sir, legally enough.
So, in the event that you first examined the loyalty board member and found yourself in violent disagreements as to what he has done in respect to somebody, it would be perfectly legal as I understand it for you then to call the person with whom he has dealt and he examined him yourself.
It would be legal sir, yes sir, and proper for you to do so.
Yes sir.
Now my next question is, suppose when you have that loyalty board before you, you were to say to him, and by the way my sister snuck's assuming that was his name, and by the way if you got anything pending before you nod.
It would be all right to ask him that too, wouldn't it?
Well, he had anything pending pending, I'm... I'm... I'm decided.
I can think of circumstances under which that would be dropping us, yes.
So that you could pick up his... his stock at a undecided case.
Well, I can think of circumstances under which that would be proper, ordinarily I don't admit.
Well, the circumstances would depend on whether or not his product was proper, isn't that right?
Well, it might have been on this, sir, if you found evidence that the man himself had a Communist front record and that he had been consistently clearing Communists, I think I know that Senator McCarthy well enough to know that the next question would...
My very well-being, how many loyalty cases are you... how many loyalty penalties that none write now?
Right, sir.
And how many cases did you got before you that are partially heard?
He might ask about it, yes, sir, yes.
And you have no difference on me about the propriety of those questions.
I have no difficulty about the propriety of them being asked, sir.
And no difficulty about your ability to force the boy and the board member to answer those questions.
That might be difficult, sir.
That might be a different question.
Senator, this is pretty well.
Well, we're going to continue this this afternoon.
The audit, I think, very properly thinking one question that I'll bring you up to pursue.
Yes, sir.
I'll try to think of all that I said for two senators. If I miss any of them, I observe you will take them up.
Well, I was much rather than you, Mr. McNouth.
Well, you're coming on the way out now, from there.
Yes, well, we've released, of course, to the Quake's judicial calendar.
Well, our members of the law are screening board and whether or not they would come within the jurisdiction of an executive of the board of the presidential law.
And because I think that's right at the heart of his thing.
Well, I think Senator, to you and I and the wetland side discussing, take wave and inform the judicial questions.
I might say that I don't know whether you're going to agree with this co-incuse or not, but if you'd like to know what mine are for whatever they were, I don't have to agree with Mr. Coal.
Yes, the line we have a certain fact and I think should take place right now that's more important than the committee says.
And if I may make an unsolumentary inquiry, we'll want you to accept it.
Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
We take this.
Everyone agrees on the birthday cake.
Thank you.
We stand in each step until two o'clock.
Now I understand why this is following and going on.
If he drops that cake, it's going to be quite the thing. There's no proof young what's the president of Senator Monthly's cake on this is 54th birthday.
Senator McCarthy, congratulations, shake hands.
Earlier today, Senator McCarthy raised a point of order which the chairman of course is probably.
Thank you.